What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures.
Because as we learned in our previous lectures data structures are simply ways to organize our data
on our computers and the data structures will see throughout this course are simply variations of how
we store this data on our computers.
This information and each data structure has their tradeoffs.
Some are good at certain operations.
Others are good at other operations one type of action that we're going to performed with data structures.
Well is insertion at a new data item in a given collection of items such as us adding the apply item
in memory.
Here another one well deletion we want to sometimes delete data such as remove mango from our list.
Another type of action might be traversal and we're going to see this a lot traversal simply means access
each data item exactly once so that it can be processed another useful one is searching.
We want to find out the location of the data item if it exists in a given collection and then we also
have things like sorting that is having data that is sorting kind of like it is on the left hand side
over here versus the right hand side where there's not much sorting going on at least from what we can
see and obviously the main one and probably the most important is access.
How do we access this data that we have on our computer now.
Each data structure that we're gonna go through in this course will have different pros and cons for
each one of these and if we take a look at our bingo chichi Well we're very familiar with this diagram
over here or this graph.
And if we scroll down we have all these data structures that add lists and don't get too overwhelmed.
We're going to go over most of these data structures and you see that half of them are mainly trees
and variation of trees and within here we see that each one of them has access search insertion deletion
average and worst case and because we understand bingo we can see that.
All right we're seeing which is good for what and what is bad for what.
And as we go through our data structures we're going to go over these pros and cons so that you build
the foundation to be able to decide which data structure should I use on your next problem.
We're gonna get started with our very first data structure in the next lesson I'll see in that one.